pattern(search): Draft for review (#672)
carbon-design-system/carbon-website: src/pages/patterns/search-pattern/index.mdx

#### Include a loading indicator

If the search will take longer than a moment or two, include a loading indicator. Your loading state should reflect your empty state with useful helper text signaling that the search is still ongoing. Include a progress bar for advanced, resource-intensive searches. Let the user know how far along the search is, and roughly how long it will take to finish.

#### Display the number of results

Always include the number of search results, including for searches with no results. If you plan to offer a scope filter, also include the number of results for each scope selector.

#### Don't include a label

Avoid adding a label to your search field. Users expect and understand search fields, and no label is necessary. A search icon along with useful placeholder text should clearly indicate that the field is intended for search.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Provide useful placeholder text and include a search icon](./images/2_do.png)

> <Caption>Provide useful placeholder text and include a search icon</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Provide useful placeholder text and include a search icon.</Caption>
```

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Don't include a label for search fields.](./images/2_dont.png)

<Caption>Don't include a label for search fields.</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

#### Localize the search field

For languages that read right to left, flip the layout of the search box as shown in the next example.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Flip the layout of the search box for languages that read right to left instead of left to right](./images/do_hebrew.png)

<Caption>
  Example of a search box for languages that read right to left instead of left

>   to right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to right
```

<Caption>
  The search icon is recognized and acceptable across languages and countries.
</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

#### Add a scope filter to your search field

The optional scoped search allows users to limit their searches to a section or category of content on a website, as opposed to a global search that searches everything at once. Only one scoped category can be selected at a time, but the dropdown should always include an "All" or "Any" option, and this option should be selected by default. With "All" or "Any" selected, the field will function as a [basic global search](#basic-search).

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of a scope filter on a search field](/images/5.png)

<Caption>Example of a scope filter on a search field</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

## Basic search

Basic search entails any search that directs users to a distinct results page. In these instances, offer either trending searches that match the active user’s keywords, recent searches by the active user, or both.

A basic search does not actually query a data set until the user runs the search.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of basic search](/images/basic_search.png)

> <Caption>Example of an active search field</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Example of a basic search field</Caption>
```

## Focused search

A focused search is a combination of basic search and active search. The user is [actively shown results](#active-search) within their immediate page, product, or scope. Below those results, they have the option to widen their scope to search all available data.

Focused search is ideal for users who are using a specific tool that is part of a catalog or suite.

![Example of focused search](/images/focused_search_full.png)

<Caption>Example of a focused search with results panel</Caption>

| When to use                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| --------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | Within a product suite      | A focused search can actively present results related to the active user. This limits the resources required for the search while still giving users the option to widen the scope of the search to an entire product catalog or database.                                                           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| _Within a product suite_      | A focused search can actively present results related to the active user. This limits the resources required for the search while still giving users the option to widen the scope of the search to an entire product catalog or database.                                                           |
```

> | Within a folder or data set | Focused searches are ideal for searching within a folder or bucket, as the user can either further focus or expand the search through a data structure. If the results panel doesn't deliver what the user needs, they can choose to search elsewhere without navigating away from the search field. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| _Within a folder or data set_ | Focused searches are ideal for searching within a folder or bucket, as the user can either further focus or expand the search through a data structure. If the results panel doesn't deliver what the user needs, they can choose to search elsewhere without navigating away from the search field. |
```

</PageDescription>

<AnchorLinks>
  <AnchorLink>Overview</AnchorLink>
  <AnchorLink>Basic search</AnchorLink>
  <AnchorLink>Active search</AnchorLink>
  <AnchorLink>Focused search</AnchorLink>
  <AnchorLink>Related components and patterns</AnchorLink>
  <AnchorLink>Accessibility</AnchorLink>
  <AnchorLink>References</AnchorLink>
  <AnchorLink>Feedback</AnchorLink>
</AnchorLinks>

## Overview

Searching is an intuitive method of discovery, offering users a way to explore a website or application using keywords. Most searches begin broad, with the scope narrowing as filters are applied.

The method of search you should use depends on the size of the data set being searched and the location of the search within your product.

The placement of your search field depends on the construction of your application and the scope of the search. For global searches, see the [global header pattern](/patterns/global-header-pattern) for placement guidance. See the [data table](/components/data-table/usage#search) component for search placement within a data table.

### Anatomy of a search field

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![An example of a basic search](/images/anatomy.png)

</Column>
</Row>

> 1. **Text entry field:** The place where a user enters their search query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Text entry field:** Where a user enters their search query.
```

> 1. **Placeholder text:** Useful and short text hinting at what the user can search for. For example, “Search for networks or devices.”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Placeholder text:** Short phrase, hinting at what the user can search for. 
```

> 1. **Search icon:** Signifies a search field. Search icons are a universal way to indicate search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Search icon:** Signifies a search field. Search icons are a universal way to indicate search.
```
```suggestion
1. **Search icon:** Signifies a search field. The magnifying glass icon is a universal way to indicate search.
```

            results page
          </StructuredListCell>
          <StructuredListCell>
            When a user will conduct a search and be routed to a distinct
            results page.
          </StructuredListCell>
        </StructuredListRow>
        <StructuredListRow>
          <StructuredListCell>
            <a href="#active-search">Active search</a>
          </StructuredListCell>
          <StructuredListCell>
            Actively searches a database and lists the top results in results
            panel or on the current page. For example:
            <UnorderedList>
              <ListItem>Searching a catalog</ListItem>
              <ListItem>Searching a small website</ListItem>
              <ListItem>Searching a small data set within a table</ListItem>
              <ListItem>
                Searching a subset of information embedded within a product or
                application's page
              </ListItem>
            </UnorderedList>
          </StructuredListCell>
          <StructuredListCell>
            Best for small data sets, like a single page, website, or table.
            When a user will benefit from constant feedback based on their

>             search query, and when the server can handle substantial search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            search query, and when the server can handle a substantial search
```

            query load.
          </StructuredListCell>
        </StructuredListRow>
        <StructuredListRow>
          <StructuredListCell>
            <a href="#focused-search">Focused search</a>
          </StructuredListCell>
          <StructuredListCell>
            <UnorderedList>
              <ListItem>Assigned tasks</ListItem>
              <ListItem>Product catalogs</ListItem>
              <ListItem>Personal repositories</ListItem>
              <ListItem>Work created by the active user</ListItem>
            </UnorderedList>
          </StructuredListCell>
          <StructuredListCell>
            When the search is focused on tasks or information specific to the
            active user. Limits server load by focusing search scope while
            offering the power of a broad, basic search.
          </StructuredListCell>
        </StructuredListRow>
      </StructuredListBody>
    </StructuredListWrapper>
  </Column>
</Row>

### Best practices

#### Avoid dead ends

> If a search returns "No results," suggest a follow-up action. Provide suggestions and helpful resources to ensure the user finds what they are looking for. For more on failed searches, see the [empty states pattern](/patterns/empty-states-pattern).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a search returns "No results," suggest a follow-up action. Provide suggestions and helpful resources to aid the user in finding what they are looking for. For more on no results for searches, see the [empty states pattern](/patterns/empty-states-pattern).
```

#### Include a loading indicator

> Include a loading indicator if the search will take longer than a moment or two. Your loading state should reflect your empty state with useful helper text signaling that the search is still ongoing. Include a progress bar for advanced, resource-intensive searches. Let the user know how far along the search is, and roughly how long it will take.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the search will take longer than a moment or two, include a loading indicator. Your loading state should reflect your empty state with useful helper text signaling that the search is still ongoing. Include a progress bar for advanced, resource-intensive searches. Let the user know how far along the search is, and roughly how long it will take to finish.
```

#### Display the number of results

Always include the number of search results, including for searches with no results. If you plan to offer a scope filter, also include the number of results for each scope selector.

#### Don't include a label

Avoid adding a label to your search field. Users expect and understand search fields, and no label is necessary. A search icon along with useful placeholder text should clearly indicate that the field is intended for search.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Do provide useful placeholder text and include a search icon](./images/2_do.png)

> <Caption>Do provide useful placeholder text and include a search icon</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Do provide useful placeholder text and include a search icon.</Caption>
```

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Don't include a label for most search fields. Users know and expect search fields.](./images/2_dont.png)

<Caption>
  Don't include a label for most search fields. Users know and expect search
  fields."
</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

#### Localize the search field

> Flip the layout of the search box for languages that read right to left instead of left to right. All elements of the search field should be presented in reversed order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For languages that read right to left, flip the layout of the search box as shown in the next example. 
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Flip the layout of the search box for languages that read right to left instead of left to right](./images/do_hebrew.png)

<Caption>

>   Flip the layout of the search box for languages that read right to left

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Example of a search box for languages that read right to left
```

  instead of left to right.
</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Flip the layout of the search box for languages that read right to left instead of left to right](./images/dont_hebrew.png)

> <Caption>The search icon is acceptable across languages and countries.</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>The search icon is recognized and acceptable across languages and countries.</Caption>
```

</Column>
</Row>

#### Add a scope filter to your search field

> The optional scoped search allow users to limit their searches to a section or category of content on a website, as opposed to a global search that searches everything at once. Only one scoped category can be selected at a time, but the dropdown should always include an "All" option, and "All" should be selected by default. With "All" selected, the field will function as a [basic global search](#basic-search).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The optional scoped search allows users to limit their searches to a section or category of content on a website, as opposed to a global search that searches everything at once. Only one scoped category can be selected at a time, but the dropdown should always include an "All" or "Any" option, and this option should be selected by default. With "All" or "Any" selected, the field will function as a [basic global search](#basic-search).
```

A basic search does not actually query a data set until the user runs the search.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of basic search](/images/basic_search.png)

<Caption>Example of an active search field</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

### When to use

#### Searching is expensive

Searching a large body of information can be resource intensive and expensive, expecially in instances where many users are searching the information simultaneously. Actively running the search after every character is entered or removed can be impractical.

#### Searching is slow

If the body of information is massive, actively searching can become too slow to be practical. Extended processing time following each character entered results in an application or website seeming unresponsive.

#### The information is unfamiliar to users

When users are searching an application or website they're unfamiliar with, a dedicated search results page can give them a better idea of data structure and available resources.

### Behaviors

#### Recent search suggestions

> When a user clicks or tabs into a search field, they should be shown a menu of either the user's recent searches, trending searches, or both. Suggestions disappear when the user types in the field, and the menu is replaced with suggestions based on their search query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a user clicks or tabs into a search field, they are be shown a menu of either the user's recent searches, trending searches, or both. When the user types in the field, this menu is replaced with suggestions based on the search query.
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of recent search suggestions](/images/6.png)

</Column>
</Row>

#### Type-ahead suggestions

> Type-ahead suggestions are based on general search patterns from all users and place minimal load on servers. Without committing to a search, the user can see a preview of results, suggestions of additional search terms, or zero in on exactly what they were looking for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Type-ahead suggestions are generated from ongoing analyses of use search patterns, and place minimal load on servers. Without committing to a search, the user can see a preview of results, suggestions of additional search terms, or zero in on what they were looking for.
```

> Type-ahead suggestions should appear as soon as the user begins typing in the search field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Type-ahead suggestions appear as soon as the user begins typing in the search field.
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of type-ahead suggestions](/images/7.png)

<Caption>Example of type-ahead suggestions</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

#### Results page

Once the user runs the search, they are directed to a distinct results page. On this page, the user should have the option to select filters to narrow their search results. If you’d prefer to offer filters before the user searches, consider adding a scope filter.

The design of the results page will depend largely on the needs of your product, and more specific design guidance for a search results page will be covered in future pattern guidance.

## Active search

> An active search is a rapid way to search an application or data set. The search runs after each character is entered, and results are shown right below the search field. You can think of active search as a way to filter a dataset through keywords.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An active search is a rapid way to search an application or data set. The search runs after each character is entered, and results are shown immediately below the search field. You can think of active search as a way to filter a dataset through keywords.
```

![Example of an active search field](./images/active_search.png)

<Caption>Example of an active search field</Caption>

### When to use

#### When data is limited

Active searches should be used in instances where the search is likely to return an accurate result, like a small website or data table with limited data. You can also use active search when looking through a catalog of items, like a product catalog or a library.

#### When users know what to look for

If users are familiar with a website or application, search will likely be used to find a resource the user knows exists. Actively returning results in the search results panel allows them to navigate directly to the page or resource.

#### To filter an on-page catalog

If your product presents a catalog on a page, you can use an active search to refine options based on the query.

### Behaviors

#### Search field

Active search placeholder text should be more specific than a basic search and should remain visible until the user begins typing in the search field. You can optionally add a "See all results" item to your results panel, which when clicked behaves as a [basic search](#basic-search).

> If you are using active search for a catalog or library, don't show a panel below the search field. The items on the page should update as the user enters their search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using active search for a catalog or library, don't show a panel below the search field. The items on the page should update as the user enters and refines their search.
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of an active search field](./images/11.png)

<Caption>Example of an active search field</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

#### Presenting results

Active search is intended to be a quicker search-in-place experience. The user should find what they're looking for in the results panel. Recent searches from the active user should appear in a panel below the search field and should be replaced by matching search results when the user begins typing.

> You can also implement active search among a small set of information displayed on a full page, like a catalog of offerings. Before the search is run, all items should be displayed. Once the user begins typing, only show items on the page that match the user's search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also implement active search for a small set of information displayed on a full page, like a catalog of offerings. Before the search is run, all items should be displayed. Once the user begins typing, only show items that match the user's search.
```

## Focused search

> A focused search is a combination of basic search and active search. The user is [actively shown results](#active-search) within their immediate page, product or scope. Below those results, they have the option to widen their scope to search all available data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A focused search is a combination of basic search and active search. The user is [actively shown results](#active-search) within their immediate page, product, or scope. Below those results, they have the option to widen their scope to search all available data.
```

Focused search is ideal for users who are using a specific tool that is part of a catalog or suite.

![Example of focused search](/images/focused_search_full.png)

### When to use

#### Within a product suite

A focused search can actively present results related to the active user. This limits the resources required for the search while still giving users the option to widen the scope of the search to an entire product catalog or database.

#### Within a folder or data set

Focused searches are ideal for searching within a folder or bucket, as the user can either further focus or expand the search through a data structure. If the results panel doesn't deliver what the user needs, they can choose to search elsewhere without navigating away from the search field.

### Behaviors

#### Search field

> A focused search should query results related to the search's focus, whether that is a user, a category, or a data set. The search results should be presented in a panel just like in [active search](#active-search), but below the results should be a button to widen the scope and see a full page of search results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A focused search queries for results related to the search's focus, whether that is a user, a category, or a data set. The search results are presented in a panel just like in [active search](#active-search), but below the results an option to widen the scope and see a full page of search results is included.
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of focused search](/images/11_focused_search.png)

</Column>
</Row>

If the user chooses a subcategory from the results panel, the search functions like a [basic search](#basic-search) with a filter applied. Any selected filter should persist during future searches until the user either discards the filter or begins a new session.

#### Presenting results

> Once a user has clicked or tabbed into the focused search field, a menu should appear with recent searches from the active user, suggestions specific to the user or session, or both. Once the user begins typing, the suggestions should disappear and the results should refine following each character entered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the user clicks or tabs into the focused search field, a menu appears with recent searches from the active user, suggestions specific to the user or session, or both. When the user begins typing, the suggestions disappear and the results are refined, following each character entered.
```
